---
title: Proof 9
author: nibir@nibirsan.org
mainfont: Latin Modern Roman
status: done
geometry: top=3cm
---
### Given an example of a family of intervals  $A_{n}, n = 1, 2, 3 \dots$ such that $A_{n+1} \subset A_{n}$ for all $n$ and $\bigcap^{\infty}_{n=1} A_{n} = \phi$. Prove that your example has the stated property.

## Proof

The family is $\left( \frac{1}{n}, \frac{1}{n} \right)$

We have two conditions to prove:

1. $A_{n+1} \subset A_{n}$
2. $\bigcap^{\infty}_{n=1} A_{n} = \phi$

### For condition 1

What $A_{n+1} \subset A_{n}$ is saying, is that the ${n+1}^{\text{th}}$ interval is the subset of the $n^{\text{th}}$ interval in the family. Which suggests that the intervals are getting smaller and smaller.

Thus, we need to show that for any $n$, the $n+1 ^{\text{th}}$ interval is smaller than the $n^{th}$ interval but also a subset, to prove the first condition.

This is simple.

If $n$ is taken arbitrarily, the interval $\left(\frac{1}{n+1}, \frac{1}{n+1} \right)$ is smaller than $\left( \frac{1}{n}, \frac{1}{n} \right)$, but a subset because $\frac{1}{n+1} < \frac{1}{n}$.

Similarly, the interval $\left( \frac{1}{n+2}, \frac{1}{n+2} \right)$ is smaller than $\left( \frac{1}{n+1}, \frac{1}{n+1} \right)$, but a subset.

Therefore, $\forall n[A_{n+1} \subset A_{n}]$. **This proves the first condition.**

### For condition 2

We know that as $n \to \infty$, $\frac{1}{n} \to 0$. So $\left( \frac{1}{n}, \frac{1}{n} \right) \to (0, 0)$, which is the last possible interval in the family.

Since $(0,0)$ does not contain any number, $(0, 0) = \phi$

Thus, the intersection is also $\phi$, because $(0, 0)$ is the last interval in the family.

$$
\begin{aligned}
\bigcap^{\infty}_{n = 1} A_{n} = \phi
\end{aligned}
$$

**This proves the second condition.**

Therefore, the family $\left( \frac{1}{n}, \frac{1}{n} \right)$ suffices both the conditions, which is what we wanted to prove.